Welcome.
Smart cards and other two-factor
authentication sessions.
My name is Shawn Geddis,
security consulting engineer
in Apple's enterprise division.
What we want to do today is give
you a little bit of an insight into,
first of all,
two-factor authentication itself,
how it can help you solve an
identity problem that many of you
may have in your enterprise space,
take a little bit closer
look from an enterprise view,
of the smart card services or
the support built into Mac OS X
Potentially choose a particular
two-factor authentication solution.
Some pick PKI,
some pick one-time passwords,
there are others out there.
We'll take a little bit of a look there.
And then I want to bring up some
of my customers that we have been
participating with in some of their
projects and have them share with you
a little bit of their experiences,
a little bit of their expectations.
So what we hope you
will learn from this is,
again, find out what those challenges are
maybe that you haven't faced yet.
Maybe if you're a developer,
challenges that you could help solve.
Hit a little bit on the DNA of
two-factor authentication for
those of you that are new to this.
Look closely, again,
two-factor authentication OS X,
and then how to integrate
that into various server
and network configurations.
So let's get started.
First of all,
what are the problems we're trying
to solve within the enterprise space?
First and foremost has
kind of arisen to the top,
and that is some true form of secure
and reliable form of identification.
We all realize that after a while,
just kind of a username and password
tends to not be a real good,
strong solution here.
So we want to look at something
as strong and reliable.
There are a lot of directives that
are being kind of bantered about and
issued and mandated around the world.
Some of those in the U.S.
federal government.
HSP D12 was a directive for all federal
governments to issue smart cards.
A lot of you might be familiar
with some of the HIPAA requirements
and Sarbanes-Oxley and others.
But there's other data directives,
data protection.
So this is a very important thing to
be sure you have solutions that prove
that people are who they say they are.
And of course,
a single sign-on solution helps you
ensure that they're not entering 15,
20 different passwords to have
access to all these services.
Tied into that, particularly when you're
doing some cyber activity,
you want to be sure that you're
retaining the integrity of that data.
Similar to that is the confidentiality.
If you're sending kind
of encrypted content,
you want to be sure that it's only,
the recipient of that is only that person
or that individual that's intended.
And then be sure that, again,
if that transaction takes place,
non-repudiation.
You can't deny the fact
that you didn't do that.
So this is a statement from
Tom Yeager back in 2004 at WWDC.
I like it because it's
so true in this space,
and that is none of us really
purchase anything unless,
first of all,
we're going to make money off of it.
We're going to save money,
or in his words,
the government requires it.
So let's take a look first of
all at two-factor authentication.
What is that?
First of all, we're all quite familiar
with username and password,
kind of a one factor.
It's something you know, right?
Add to that what you have.
A lot of us have all kinds of dongles,
all kinds of devices.
It's physically something you have,
separate from something you know here.
Something we're not going
to really touch on today,
but a third factor there is what you are.
Biometrics.
Could be fingerprints,
could be facial recognition,
could be retinal scans,
that kind of thing.
All of those play into
those multi-factors.
And just to clear up with the
two-factor authentication,
or at least a definition of that,
is you take any two of
those previous factors,
just looking at those three,
combine them together,
and now you've got a much stronger form
than just taking one of them by itself.
So tokens, in this space,
kind of the reference of
tokens tends to get a little,
it's kind of an overloaded term.
I just wanted to hit
on this a little bit.
The reference of token is really kind
of an abstraction of all of these,
it's kind of a, here,
serving as a visible or tangible
representation of something abstract,
right?
It's something we can refer to.
But a token sometimes may be referred
to as a physical token device,
or a token may be, again,
kind of an abstraction
with a one-time password.
or our smart card in this case.
But the other thing,
since you're in kind of
the enterprise space,
the critical point is how in the
world do you get these two-factor
authentication solutions tied
into your directory service?
Right?
We all know that we're not
all tied to doing a one-to-one
management where we're just
authenticating locally to our system.
It's back in directory services.
So that's the key point.
So let's look a little bit
about what we can deploy today.
We're going to cover predominantly
smart cards here today.
We're going to hit just
briefly on one-time passwords,
but again, mostly on smart cards.
So let's look at smart cards in Mac OS X.
There's a, as I would say here,
a typical PKI-based smart card,
and I put in quotes typical
because many of the deployments,
many of the installations have
really kind of picked their own
form of a profile or environment,
and what is the contents
of those smart cards.
And this is a typical example, really,
of a card that is
implemented with an identity,
both the certificate and the private key,
of course, and then for email signing
and email encryption.
And really what you have then is,
in this case, is six items,
certificates and the
associated private key.
Again, protection with a PIN is for
protecting that private data.
So most people,
when they fear the loss of a smart card,
what's going to happen
if someone can get that?
That PIN, that protection of access
to that private data,
is what prevents folks from gaining
access to your keys and all in that case.
So smart card uses in Mac OS X.
There's been a lot of folks that are
unfamiliar with what capabilities.
The capabilities are built
into OS X with smart cards.
First of all, there's login.
You can enable smart card login in X.4,
and we've done a tremendous
amount of work to make that
just take place in Leopard.
Login is the first place.
Many folks start with that,
and then they move into a
place of system administration.
If I'm going to control access
to administering my machine,
changing system settings,
it's the authentication and then
accessing the authorization rights.
those of you that attended
one of the previous sessions.
Screen Saver.
Unlocking Screen Saver.
You step away from your machine,
you come back,
you're going to unlock the screen.
Web Access.
Secure web access for
client-side authentication.
We've had server-side
for quite some time.
Now with smart cards
built into the services,
you can do that
client-side authentication.
There's many folks that are implementing
web access controls and services like
that that are now requiring that.
VPN.
Whether you're doing layer-two tunneling,
point-to-point, whatever,
you're now wanting to
use that same solution.
Remember that single sign-on approach.
And finally,
we'll look a little bit at mail.
Mail typically is we're looking at SMIME,
and it's really more from a service
standpoint and less from a kind of
a two-factor authentication piece.
But again,
we wanted to cover this with smart cards.
So what did Apple really do
to make this all possible?
And that is that we,
as we'll show going through this session,
smart cards really become key chains.
And you're all familiar or should
be familiar with key chains and
how it's implemented in OS X,
but that's really kind of the
key message you should take away.
The simplicity of integrating smart
cards into the OS as key chains really
is what makes a lot of this possible.
So let's go through
each one of those items.
Smart card login.
You've got the potential of using a
particular smart card to physically
log in to the local machine,
to log in to an LDAP server,
to log in to Active Directory,
to log in to--you name the
directory service of choice that
you've configured on your system.
But there are a couple different
ways of setting up that login,
different approaches that people need
to take or have taken in the past.
And these two methods I've kind
of referred to as kind of a
cryptographic data exchange and
also kind of an attribute matching,
just to kind of differentiate
to clear that up for you.
We want to just walk you through
these and let you see what the
differences or the different approaches
that these provide to see whether
that fits into your environment.
The first one gives you the ability
of doing a match or the use of
an associated public key hash.
What it really is doing is allowing
you to map a certificate and a
private key that's on that card
to use that as your identity.
Then you'll end up doing a
full cryptographic login.
But the first method here allows
you to add that to the record,
the user's record,
in your directory service.
There are some environments,
this would be typical for a server.
You could have a server that's
a server that's a local server,
doing it locally for net info,
adding it to an LDAP server.
And then there are some other
environments that we've mentioned
in some previous sessions.
For instance,
with Active Directory plugin,
if you're utilizing our built-in plugin,
authentication authority
is done on the fly.
So that approach wouldn't
work in that environment.
The second method is the ability
of doing attribute matching.
This is where you can pick certain
attributes from-- and this came
historically from support for some
of these services that were required
within the federal government.
So they were drawing attributes
from the email certificate.
In this case,
the typical scenario that was being
used within the federal government
is drawing the NT principal name from
the email cert and mapping that to
or doing the lookup in the directory
service against-- in this case,
the attribute name was userPrincipleName.
All that is is just
identifying what the user is,
or who that user is,
that's attempting to log in.
It's not doing the login yet.
It's just identifying.
It then requires the pin unlocked
to access that private key.
So now let's look at
system administration.
Many of you have seen the dialogue.
You're getting ready to use
your username and password.
But recall, again,
if you've attended some
of the other sessions,
the associated rights that are required
for those various locations or various
settings within system preference.
Three of them in particular are
the broad system preferences,
those for accessibility,
and then those for the accounts.
And if you've done the
enablement with smart cards and
you have a smart card inserted,
that dialogue will then
switch and display the PIN,
realizing that indeed this is
the user that you're wanting
to authenticate with and asking
for the PIN to unlock that card.
We're going to do a little bit
of a demo a little bit later.
We talk a lot about authorization.
It's been mentioned briefly
here real quick in this
session and quite frequently in
several of the other sessions.
Just wanted to run through this
real quick to be sure those of
you that are unfamiliar with this
get a little bit more comfortable
with what's happening here.
You've got the application
that needs access to a write,
needs to take an action.
So it's going to request a
write from the security server.
The first thing the security
server does is queries,
essentially does lookups,
does kind of an analysis of
how those policies are set.
That would be an Etsy authorization.
Once it has that information,
if necessary,
it's doing the UI to the user to
gather the appropriate information.
In the case of a smart card,
it may be asking for the pin.
In the case of biometrics,
it may be getting a fingerprint
or a facial recognition.
That's all kind of an independent,
out-of-band communication with that user,
with that process in some cases maybe,
to gather the appropriate
authentication to prove who they are.
Once that's accomplished,
results sent back to Security Server,
Security Server grants that
right to the application.
In this case, we were just talking
about system preferences,
would then grant access for
that user into that service.
So I had mentioned before that we
had made this available in 10.4 and
we were really making it simple and
leopard modifications already there.
If you're on 10.4 today and you
want to enable these services,
specifically for login,
you're going to need to do
some minor modifications.
And if you look at the
authorization for the right,
that's named System Login Console,
So, what you'll end up seeing
is this kind of blurb,
right?
You actually see the mechanisms.
And by color coding there,
the orange colors are -- those are
the lines that you need to insert.
Okay, those are additional lines.
The red line is actually a removal.
There are some ways of generating
this once and creating a diff file
and applying it to other machines.
You can do a manual modification as well.
That would give you now the ability,
remember this is a write
for system login console,
to authenticate.
This would now do the
enablement and actually use,
as you see there, Smart Card Sniffer,
which then identifies that a
smart card has been inserted and
do that as the authentication.
In conjunction with that,
you have the rule.
Associated with that is
your need to authenticate.
So just as we did with the write,
we need to modify that to
enable the use of smart cards.
Again, this is on 10.4, and on 10.5,
this is done for you ahead of time.
Smart Card Sniffer, again,
we're adding that in the
authenticate with privileged.
We're adding that and we're
removing the auth internal.
So it's for the right and the rule.
That's now giving you that
ability for authenticating
with smart cards for login,
system administration,
any dialogue where you're normally
going to do that authentication
now has the ability to recognize
and leverage that smart card.
Then there are other
services we talked about.
Web access.
You need to do client
side authentication.
Those of you that have been using Safari,
you go to a secure website.
You see the little lock in
the upper right-hand corner.
What ends up happening is you
roll over that with your cursor.
What that does is that brings up
the certificate and the chain that's
being passed back from that server.
So in this case, this is a U.S.
Army website.
I can now look at each individual
certificate in that chain path,
the server cert itself all the
way back to the trusted root.
And you'll see there this one indicates
that this certificate is valid.
We've now validated that according
to the preference setting in our
certificate revocation that we'll
get to in a little bit later.
So you can walk back through and
check the validity of each cert
all the way back to the root.
And again,
we're looking at it from the server side.
But what about the client side?
So we've got a certificate,
whether it's on a smart card
or available in a key chain.
You go through the process
and essentially you're
going to get that challenge.
You're going to end up needing to
provide access to your identity.
In this case,
the system is going to automatically
provide the first identity
that's found in your system.
And in some of the recent builds of 10.4,
what we did is we elevated kind
of the priority of smart cards so
they now appear first in the list.
So they're going to be searched
first for those identities.
You'd end up having to unlock if
it's not already there with your PIN,
and then you'd be granted access
if that right is accepted.
But many of us have a growing
either a demand or condition
that we have multiple identities.
How do you handle that situation
and still kind of retain the
zero configuration environment?
So what we've done at Apple is
you follow that same procedure.
You're hitting a secure website.
You're needing to have the system kind
of transparently behind the scenes
deliver the first identity found.
But in this case,
it may not be the identity
that's accepted in the server.
So what ends up happening
is it gets rejected.
You then get presented with the
list of remaining identities
that you have available to you in
your remaining keychains or maybe
even additional smart cards.
And then once you select
that the first time,
we end up sending a hint,
setting a hint in your system.
And then once you hit that keychain,
we refer to it as identity preference.
We'll see a quick shot
of that in a second.
And the next time you
hit that secure website,
it's always going to use that
identity that you've pointed out.
So let's take a look at that.
What would that look like?
I've hit the site.
It didn't accept the first one I sent.
And now it says here's a list of
a whole bunch of them that I have.
In this case,
you see that actually the first
one is not even valid anymore.
It probably expired in this case.
And I could select another one.
So the hint that I'm referring
to ends up being -- I'm going to
go ahead and hit the keychain.
And then once I hit that keychain,
we refer to it as identity preference.
this identity preference
that's added to Keychain.
Okay, so again,
this kind of gives you the whole
setup of the zero configuration
where if I only had one identity,
I'd never see this.
If I have multiple, set it once, done.
Okay.
Next service.
We've gone system administration,
login we started with,
and we went into web.
VPN.
A lot of you have some remote
access telecommuting needs,
whether it's even inside
of some of the facilities.
A lot of folks will do,
set up some wireless networks
and require VPN access back in.
How do we tie that in with
two-factor authentication?
So with remote access,
typical approaches are
layer two tunneling.
We provide L2TP over IPSec and then
point-to-point tunneling protocol.
And there's many more of you now that
are looking to or relying on 802.1X,
again, for access control there.
So let's take a peek on those.
Just to make sure that people are
aware of how this process flows,
let's take a look at a standard layer
two tunneling protocol over IPSec
connection for establishing a VPN.
The client is really going
to make that request,
and the VPN server here
could be a concentrator,
could be whatever your
implementation is here.
It's going to do that request,
typically through either your enterprise
wireless network or through the internet,
maybe broadband connection at a hotel.
And the server is then going to provide
that challenge back to the client and
request authentication using EAP TLS.
So this is where your
certificate comes in.
Well, then the client is going to pass
that back to that concentrator,
the VPN server.
And in this case,
there's really kind of a pass-through.
That VPN server would really
be set up in e-proxy mode and
really pass that TLS transaction,
the whole certificate,
to the authentication server.
In many cases, some folks might have a
Windows IES server for this.
And that authentication server would
then do its validation of the cert,
make sure it hasn't been revoked,
checking on the user,
all that validation.
It comes back to the
concentrator VPN server.
That was successful.
The user's in.
Okay, all based on the certificate,
in this case,
that we had selected on the card.
Keep in mind here that all of
these services log in with VPN,
with system administration.
If I have the card set up,
if I have the card unlocked,
if I've logged into my machine
and I've unlocked the card,
if the service doesn't require
me to enter a PIN to unlock
the access again to that card,
I will no longer need to enter the
PIN again when I get to the next service.
So if I just logged in my laptop
and I need to gain VPN access
maybe out here in the hall,
I wouldn't have to enter
my PIN again at this time.
Makes it very easy, again,
getting back to that zero,
or I should say single
sign-on kind of environment.
So just to be sure you're aware
of how to do this within the
dialogue of Internet Connect or the
configuration of Internet Connect,
of course you'd be selecting
Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol,
and in the configuration itself,
What you're doing now is for user
authentication in that upper left,
you're selecting certificate.
And what you'll get is that
dialogue you see on the right,
and it will show a list of
all the certificates that
are valid for that usage,
whether it's a certificate or an
identity that's in my file-based key
chain or if it's in my smart card.
Now, associated with that,
this is really not from the
user authentication level,
but some folks are really
looking into also doing the
authentication on the machine level.
So again, this is a little bit separate.
I just wanted to bring it up here.
You'll see machine authentication
at the bottom has the ability
of using certificates as well,
and that's where you need to have
that in your system keychain.
Remember,
there are several keychains that
are managed by the OS rather than
being user-specific keychains.
If you don't have one in there,
you end up being told that you
don't have an appropriate machine
certificate that's available.
Again,
you need that in your system keychain.
The same goes for the other approaches
that most people are going to have here,
again, with BPTP.
Same use, selecting certificates,
whether they're on a
keychain or on a smart card.
Of course, with 802.1X as well,
setting up for TLS and selection
either in file-based or on smart cards.
So for mail,
there's just some points I wanted
to be sure that you're all aware of.
So I'm composing an email message here.
And I see that there's a
little check mark there.
That actually indicates that I have an
appropriate identity that's available
in one of my key chains that maps
to the account I'm sending from.
And a little bit of verification there.
I'm looking in one of my key chains,
and I have the identity,
the private key and the certificate.
But one thing that seems to have
gotten some folks is look close
And the key is that that has
to be the same email address.
It has to be the same case sensitivity.
Okay, and there's a lot of folks
that have done some various
configurations or various entries,
capitals, lowercase,
and they couldn't figure out
why it wasn't coming up in mail.
The key is case sensitivity,
really everything to the
left of the @ symbol there.
So that's for me.
But if I'm setting this
up to send to somebody,
Joe User, I'm going to send to him.
If I actually have the public
cert for that individual,
then that kind of grayed out lock
then becomes available for me,
indicating that I do have
a certificate to send an
encrypted message to that user.
I'm always using a key
from their public cert.
So let's take a look at some of
those in action here on the machine.
First of all, keychain access.
That's where all of this starts.
I had mentioned early on that
you've got the various keychains.
And right here,
you see that I've got one of my smart
cards inserted in one of my USB readers.
We're going to talk about some
of the hardware environments
and support for things.
So there's the six items
that I had mentioned.
Here is the identity and
email certificates and their
associated private keys.
Again, this is a key chain,
so any application that's leveraging
the security APIs within the
OS now can utilize my smart card
without having to deal with the
interaction of the card itself.
So let's look real quick on
what happens at the login window
environment when I have a smart card.
You notice real quickly here that
it still shows me with my name,
because that's the account
associated with this.
But now it's asking me for a PIN,
because I've got the card available.
In this case, I left it in here.
It's ready to go.
Do my corresponding pin, I'm logged in.
Again, it does that challenge in
mapping with the account.
Well, the same thing we mentioned
was with system preferences.
If I'm going to do some alterations,
let's say, with my accounts,
I'm going to unlock--
same thing with dialogues.
Now I'm being asked for the right--
dropped this down.
That was one of those
rights that we looked at.
System Preferences Accounts is now
available to use with smart cards.
So if I enter my same PIN,
Now I can do my standard
modifications to my system.
Do all the screen lock if
I go ahead and lock my screen.
Let's also look at Safari.
Again,
just kind of a quick representation
of some of those services
that we've just spoken about.
So let's go to a couple
of the sites here,
and I'll just pull up the
AKO site that you saw in my slide.
Here's where you see,
upper right hand corner,
you see the lock.
If I click on that,
here's that whole scenario of
the certificate from the server.
So in real time we are looking
at that particular certificate,
validating it, doing the whole trust path
all the way back to root.
If I proceed,
then I'm going to be challenged and need
to require the access to my smart card.
And if I go to another one of these,
[Transcript missing]
But we're looking at the
certificate revocation validation.
We're looking at CRL and OCSP.
And in many cases,
most of you will want to
set things to best attempt.
It means that when you've got that
network access and most recently
have been able to cache that,
in the case of CRL,
you still can validate that
certain continue of the process.
If I required it and
I didn't have network access,
that certificate or that identity would
have been marked as being invalid.
I wouldn't continue with that.
Okay?
So again, with Safari,
with internet access.
Quickly just bringing up the VPN side,
the scenario that we just mentioned,
we went through the screenshots on.
Here's where I'm selecting a certificate.
Now what you see is that is that
representation of my smart card
that I have inserted in my reader.
And I can go ahead and proceed to kind of
interrogate or look at that certificate
that's physically on that card.
Under the hood, for those of you who
are interested in this,
you see right here,
I highlighted.
That's one of those token Ds
that we're going to talk about.
And that's the associated process
that's communicating with that card
and doing that propagation of that
all the way up through to keychain.
So again,
we can get into the mail process,
but I think at this point with time,
let's move on a little bit
further and go back to slides.
So let's look at-- I've been showing
you some of the services within the OS,
and I've really been using smart cards
that are supported within the OS.
Again, if you attended the session 416,
it got into the various tokens support
for smart cards that are built in.
That'd be the US federal
government smart card,
Belgian card, and with the Japanese card.
These three are built-in
support within the OS.
That means that if you are in an
environment where you're using a
card that meets this specification,
we already have the software available,
the device support in this case
for those particular smart cards.
So the other component is the readers.
A lot of people have had questions.
I get mail messages every
day asking what reader works,
what reader doesn't.
The key one to be looking at if
you haven't got into smart card
reader purchases just yet is be
looking for CCID compliant readers.
It's kind of the closest thing you'll
get to kind of a standard across
the board on smart card readers.
We have a CCID class driver in
the OS to support those readers.
No need for additional drivers.
We've got several proprietary
implementations of PCMCIA,
USB, USB dongle readers support as well.
But those can change between
versions going forward and looking
back at previous revs of the OS.
So again,
the suggestion is continue to move
towards CCID compliant readers.
As I had mentioned with these readers,
we've got the support,
but many of you may have your
own devices that you need to
start looking at the support,
bringing on over to OS X.
And a good resource for some of the
PCSC drivers available for a lot of the
kind of legacy readers that have been out
there is LinuxNet.com for source drivers.
We'll give you a good start.
Open source drivers available.
So now what I want to do is ask
Krishnan from Genentech to come up and
just spend a couple moments with me
here to give you a little bit idea of
how some of the folks in the private
sector are leveraging the built-in
smart card services within OS X.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, so we talked a little bit about
tying in to other directory services.
So this kind of gives you that view
that you're facing on a daily basis.
How would I use that smart card into
whatever back end solution I have?
Now, first of all, just to kind of better
understand the architecture here,
look at the whole abstraction
layer with smart cards.
We've got the login.
They're on top of our
directory services APIs,
and some of you may have seen
this again in session 416 as well.
And then below,
you've got all your directory access.
So when I did my login here,
I happened to be logging into
a local account on my laptop,
but that could have been any
of our directory services,
any access to an LDAP server
or whatever in the back end.
And that process is really that lookup.
Remember,
we talked about kind of the matching,
either with public key hash
or the attribute matching.
So let's look exactly
how you would do that.
I kind of showed you,
but let's walk through each one of these.
Within the authentication
authority in an account,
you typically had the shadow hash
you see there at the bottom with
the authentication authority.
And when you use the new
command related to smart cards,
seauth,
you will then be adding the public
key hash or one of those from the
card that you have in this case.
That then does that association
between the card and the account.
So again, the command is seauth.
You've got the ability now of
setting it up for accepting
that card for that account,
removing those,
or just physically printing out
the hashes for your use here
of identifying which hash is
identifying the identity key,
in this case,
email signing and encryption.
There really isn't a requirement
of which one you use.
In some cases,
some folks may particularly focus
on maybe the email signing cert,
as I mentioned earlier.
That's a focus within the government.
But with respect to
associating this account,
it doesn't matter which
one of those you use.
So if I'm going to bind or
link this card to my account,
I'm going to do the seauth, accept,
designate my user,
and dash h to indicate my hash.
And again, in this case,
I'm actually picking that first one.
But any of these could be used,
and I could also have multiple entries.
Many of you might know that we all kind
of come to work and we may have our
badges or we may forget our badges,
so you may issue a temporary badge.
Or you may have multiple cards or
the need for multiple individuals
to get to a particular account.
In this case, with this method,
you can add multiple public key
hashes to any given account,
giving you the ability to log in to
that account with multiple cards.
So here I'm really just looking at
the authentication authority attribute
value using DSCL for my local.
The bottom there kind of references LDAP,
if I'm going to do that.
[Transcript missing]
This is a typical P-list,
so it's very short.
There's not a whole lot
of information in here.
The first indicates fields.
Those are an array of fields
that you're pulling from,
and they are the actual attribute name,
you're pulling from the
email cert on the card.
And again,
since this is kind of an approach
that was drawn from the federal space,
there is the drawing from the email cert,
and at the moment we don't support any
of the other certificates on the card.
Then we need to format it.
In this case, we're just going to
take the value itself.
So $1 is we're just going
to take that first value.
And we need to define what
attribute we're looking for
in our directory service.
In this case,
at the bottom there you see DS attribute
type native user principal name.
I'm now defining that it's a unique
attribute that I'm going to map to
in one of my directory services.
So what would that look like?
In the case of actually my card,
I think that's the value,
or a typical default value.
It's going to be a 10
digit number at mil,
is the case within the federal space.
So that value is going to be looked at
against my directory service against the
attribute value of user principal name.
It's then going to find the
user associated with that
and bring up my login window,
much like you saw, asking for a pin.
I haven't actually logged in.
I'm just doing that association.
And these are just some of the string
values and some typical string names
and then typical values that you'd find
within those attributes in the card.
Again, you can combine that with
literals even to generate a longer
string or unique information.
So we can do mapping.
I've been mentioning that
this is really predominantly
used within the federal space.
And I'd like to welcome up Ryan McCrone
to give us a little bit of insight as
to how they're implementing the smart
cards within the government space.
Thank you, Shawn.
My name is Ryan McCrone.
I am a contractor working for the U.S.
Army, the Advanced Technologies Division.
My company is Ease Technologies.
We had three major goals and
expectations going into this project.
The first was to meet our government
mandates which have been talked
about throughout the presentation.
The greatest requirement of that was
a single federal identity for all
forms of access from building access,
federal ID,
and computer and network access.
Our second goal was tight
integration with our Army network.
We have a very extensive existing
Active Directory system and Kerberos
system that needed to be accounted for.
We wanted to eliminate all
passwords except for the user's PIN.
And our third major goal was usability.
We wanted to provide a single logon,
SMIME, and HTTPS,
and administration system,
an SSO system that was
very easy for the user.
Some of our experiences:
Smart Card does provide a strong
two-form factor of identification.
The DoD leads deployment
of Smart Cards in the U.S.
federal government,
and Apple does have integration
of Smart Card in OS X.
However,
it didn't meet our minimum requirements,
so we went out to a third-party
development system of
Thursby Software Systems,
and they were able to give us
the integration that we needed.
Unfortunately,
the vast majority of the U.S.
Army still uses PCs,
and we had to learn how to
play with them cooperatively.
Therefore, we needed to authenticate our
users to the Active Directory.
We needed to be able to send
SMIME with Entourage 2004
through our Exchange servers,
ranging from 2000 to 2003,
even up to 2000.
We needed to be able to send
SMIME with Entourage 2004
through our Exchange servers,
ranging from 2000 to 2003,
even up to 2000.
We needed to be able to send
SMIME with Entourage 2004
through our Exchange servers,
ranging from 2000 to 2003,
even up to 2000.
to the new E12 servers.
And finally,
we needed to be able to have secure web
access through Safari to sites like AKO,
which was just demonstrated.
Things we learned.
When developers and Apple work together,
it delivers a product that
the customer really needs.
We'd like to thank Thursby and Apple for
working very tightly with each other
and closely with us to develop a program
that got most of our requirements done.
And we also identified a lot of
new requirements along the way.
The Army wanted greater control
over the individual systems,
which we are still working on.
And some systems actually need to
support two smart cards simultaneously.
So when an administrator logs
into a machine and needs to
perform a higher level command,
he has to pop in a second card.
Unfortunately,
this gives us a new issue where card
removal brings up a locked screen.
And that is something we are
currently working on and hopefully
we'll have a solution to soon.
Thank you very much, Shawn.
Join me in thanking Ryan.
[Transcript missing]
So I had mentioned smart cards.
We want to just take a very
brief look at one-time passwords.
Many of you may have what
many of we have as well,
is other tokens,
one-time password tokens.
This happens to be a crypto card token.
You may have a secure ID token.
Those are giving you
those one-time passwords.
Again,
we're trying to solve the problem of
the standard what you know of a username
and a password and solve that secure
and reliable form of identification.
So in this case, how much or where has
Apple incorporated the one-time
password support built into OS X?
And in this case,
we really have provided it in the
VPN services within the remote access.
And if you look closely, within 10.4,
you have both the identification
of RSA Secure ID and with
CryptoCard in the VPN settings.
So you can use those one-time password
tokens right in OS X's Internet Connect.
There is a KBase article that's
available to actually set up
manually the OS X server to allow
it to provide authentication
back to a secure ID server.
I know we've talked about a
radius server being on Leopard.
In this case,
folks are also looking into doing
a little bit of use of secure ID in
the back end for that authentication
from 10.3 using secure ID tokens.
Then, of course,
the server administration guides,
in this case, network services,
go up to server documentations,
and you'll find this is a
very helpful guide both in
understanding the architecture and
step-by-step setup of that service.
So from a standpoint of a
complete end-to-end solution,
one of the solutions that's
available to you today,
and has been for literally
a year and a half,
I believe,
is CryptoCard's one-time password.
With their solution, you can also add the
login with that token.
So if you have the RSA Secure
ID or your CryptoCard token,
you can also do the login
with a one-time password.
We've been talking an awful
lot about smart cards,
but you could be doing it as
well with a one-time password.
And in their case,
they do also support the use or the
ongoing use of the Secure ID tokens
as you migrate from one to the other.
And the various tokens you see
there were smart card form factor,
pin pads, and the key fobs.
Just a quick,
this is really kind of an overview
showing you what the product is,
but it provides you kind of the
end-to-end solution for token-based
authentication from the client all
the way to the server for login,
VPN, web.
They've got some management tools and
some deployment components as well.
But that gives you the use of, again,
those one-time password
tokens on OS X today.
So in summary,
we've been going through this
discussion of two-factor authentication.
We've been going through
the use of smart cards,
one-time password tokens.
Hopefully you're starting to see
that this is giving you some options,
some good solutions for providing that
secure and reliable form of identity.
You've got users.
Many of you have lots of users that
really the manageability of knowing for
sure that they are who they claim to be
is very critical in your day-to-day jobs.
And that this is actually going to help
you solve the solutions of the two-factor
within your enterprise architecture.
And hopefully between the
session 4.16 and this session,
you've actually gotten a really good
glimpse both at a high level and down
at the API and service level of the
support of smart cards that are built in.
In this case with the government cards,
the Belpick and the Japanese cards,
that that service is already
available shipping out of the box.
And with third parties
as Krishnan mentioned.
With Siemens,
they had their card very quickly
supported on the platform.
If you've got other developers,
other smart card vendors that you want
to use their card in your environment
and they haven't brought it over yet,
please encourage them to talk with us
to expedite their deployment on OS X.
And hopefully we've covered a
fair amount of the scenarios.
It's very hard to cover
every little situation,
but hopefully we've given you a very
broad understanding and hit a couple
of the points of integrating with some
of your network solutions that you're
going to face on a regular basis.
And we think that the architecture
environment really enables
some new solutions that haven't
been implemented before.
And I don't have the hardware
available with me this morning,
but by design with the
architecture within OS X,
and with the token environment,
and with smart cards specifically here,
I could go much further than
just having my single smart card.
I could have the situation,
much like Ryan had mentioned,
with a need for two smart cards.
I can literally have additional
smart cards added to my system,
and my applications don't
need to manage that.
It's a very significant difference
architecturally than other platforms.
So in this case,
with a little bit more information,
standard location for content
up on the WWDC website.
I think we're going to try to
include in an additional document
some of the slides that we needed
to remove just due to time,
because things got
shortened a little bit here.
And from a contact standpoint,
if you're a developer,
key contact is Craig Keithley
that covers all the security
technology evangelism here.
And I included my information
because an assortment of you
all in various environments,
whether it's enterprise or
in the government space,
either need some additional
guidance or direct working.
And so my contact information
is available to you as such.